[shopsys] Google Cloud deploy using Terraform, Kustomize and Kubernetes (#633)
shopsys/shopsys: docs/kubernetes/kubernetes-production-google-cloud.md

We created shell scripts that encapsulate functionality of Terraform and Kustomize on google-cloud. This document describes functionality of each technology.

If you want to know something about the script usage, read [Deploy to Google Cloud from CI](./deploy-to-google-cloud-from-ci.md).

## Google Cloud
Create a user on Google Cloud. Read more [here](https://console.cloud.google.com/getting-started)

After creating user create project.

### Obtain Parameters and service-account.json

1. service-account.json

    Read more here https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys

1. Project id

1. Your Login to Google Cloud

### Enable API
Enable `Kubernetes engine API` so you can control resources and providers using terraform.

![enabled-APIs](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/39240194/49294075-324c0900-f4b2-11e8-8cab-bb72fd61046d.png)
Read more here:
https://cloud.google.com/apis/docs/enable-disable-apis

## Terraform
To be able to create infrastructure on Google Cloud, we need a tool that is able to communicate with google cloud API. For this purpose we have decided to use Terraform.

> [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) is tool that allows you to create, change and destroy infrastructure on popular cloud providers and many other platforms.

Author: Feel like with goodle Cloud AWS as examples, people will get the point.

We use it to declare database providers, clusters and networks on Google Cloud using declarative configurations that are part of the repository.

### Applying infrastructure using Terraform
Terraform applies infrastructure based on configuration provided, Shopsys Framework contains prepared configuration in [infrastructure/google-cloud](/project-base/infrastructure/google-cloud).

Terraform needs to be initialized, which installs desired provider.

```bash
terraform init
```

Each change of application infrastructure needs to be applied. Terraform creates a tfstate file which is current state of installed infrastructure, that means that if you change something in infrastructure, Terraform will not apply all changes again, but it will just compare current state with desired state and change only desired changes.

For applying change of infrastructure we need to execute this command:

```bash
terraform apply
```

To stop running infrastructure:

```bash
terraform destroy
```

Always keep in mind to have tfstate file available, if you lose this file and try to stop running infrastructure, nothing will happen because terraform will not know what resource to stop.

## Kustomize

> Production environment is little bit different then the one used on CI. For example, on google cloud we use storage tools like [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/) and [Redis](https://redis.io/) provided by google cloud platform.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Production environment is little bit different than the one used on CI. For example, on google cloud we use storage tools like [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/) and [Redis](https://redis.io/) provided by google cloud platform.  
```

# Production on Google Cloud Platform using Kubernetes, Terraform and Kustomize

Shopsys Framework provides a way how to deploy your site on Google Cloud using Kubernetes manifests, Terraform configurations and Kustomize written into repository.

We created shell scripts that encapsulate functionality of Terraform and Kustomize on google-cloud. This documents only describes functionality of each technology.

If you want to know about the script usage, read [Deploy to Google Cloud from CI](deploy-to-google-cloud-from-ci.md).

## Google Cloud
Create a user on Google Cloud.

After creating user create project.

### Obtain Parameters and service-account.json

1. service-account.json

    Read more here https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys

2. Project id

3. Your Login to Google Cloud

### Allow API

> Allow API so you can control resources and providers using terraform.

Reviewer: google got it like enable disable API

> Allow API so you can control resources and providers using terraform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable `kubernetes engine API` so you can control resources and providers using terraform.
```

Reviewer: or we can provide image from our working example 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/39240194/49294075-324c0900-f4b2-11e8-8cab-bb72fd61046d.png)

Reviewer: or we can get it from usage metrics
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/39240194/49339361-ce9c1a00-f630-11e8-8584-f6f8e6bcd351.png)

Read more here:
https://cloud.google.com/apis/docs/enable-disable-apis

## Terraform
To be able to create infrastructure on Google Cloud, we need a tool that is able to communicate with google cloud API. For this purposes we decided to use Terraform.

> [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) is tool that allows you to create, change and delete infrastructure on popular cloud providers and many other platforms.

Author: first option is gramatically ok right?

> We use it to declare database providers, clusters and network on Google Cloud using declarative configurations that are part of the repository.

Author: lets go with networks

### Applying infrastructure using Terraform
Terraform applies infrastructure based on configuration provided, Shopsys Framework got prepared configuration in [infrastructure/google-cloud](/project-base/infrastructure/google-cloud).

Terraform needs to be initialized, which installs all the providers.

```
terraform init
```

Each change needs to be applied. Terraform creates a tfstate file which is current state of infrastructure installed, that means that if you change something in infrastructure Terraform will not apply all changes again, but just compare current state with desire state and change only desired changes.

Apply infrastructure change:

```
terraform apply
```

To stop running infrastructure:

```
terraform destroy
```

Always keep in mind to have tfstate file available, if you lost this file and try to stop running infrastructure, nothing will happen because terraform will not know what to stop.

## Kustomize

> Production environment is little bit different then one used on CI. For example, on google cloud we use postgres and redis provided by google cloud platform.

Reviewer: ***than*** is for differentiate
***then*** is for time

> 

Author: What? :D

> That means that we do not use always same manifests, with Kustomize you can divide your manifests into `variants`, for example CI, production etc. These variants are located in [kubernetes/kustomize/overlays](/project-base/kubernetes/kustomize). Each variant has `kustomization.yml` which can independently select own manifests using `resources` or generate config maps, create secrets etc.  

Author: What? you cannot talk about project-base because users clones project-base, for them project-base does not exists.

> That means that we do not use always same manifests, with Kustomize you can divide your manifests into `variants`, for example CI, production etc. These variants are located in [kubernetes/kustomize/overlays](/project-base/kubernetes/kustomize). Each variant has `kustomization.yml` which can independently select own manifests using `resources` or generate config maps, create secrets etc.  

Reviewer: does this comment belongs here?

> That means that we do not use always same manifests, with Kustomize you can divide your manifests into `variants`, for example CI, production etc. These variants are located in [kubernetes/kustomize/overlays](/project-base/kubernetes/kustomize). Each variant has `kustomization.yml` which can independently select own manifests using `resources` or generate config maps, create secrets etc.  

Reviewer: problem here was different paths in [] and () [kubernetes/kustomize/overlays] (/project-base/kubernetes/kustomize)

> Final command for applying kubernetes using Kustomize would look something like this:

Author: Why `.` instead of `:`

Select environment, in our case `production` and go to variant folder:

```
cd kubernetes/overlays/production
```

Build final manifest from variant:

```
kustomize build
```

This outputs a final yaml file into stream, you can use this output with kubectl like this:

```
kustomize build | kubectl apply -f -
```

> ## What next?

Reviewer: Next steps that are somehow important?

Author: Each document should be linked. Thats the way how to do it.

> [Deploy your application on your CI](./deploy-to-google-cloud-from-ci.md)

Author: When its document next to document you are reading, there is relative, when we talk about files in project base or somewhere else in the project I use absolute path.

> 

Reviewer: maybe dashes for list or 2 spaces at the end of line 91 would be better
